(u"Microsoft seeking spyware trojan\n\nMicrosoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm's anti-spyware software.\n\nThe spyware tool was only released by Microsoft in the last few weeks and has been downloaded by six million people. Stephen Toulouse, a security manager at Microsoft, said the malicious program was called Bankash-A Trojan and was being sent as an e-mail attachment. Microsoft said it did not believe the program was widespread and recommended users to use an anti-virus program. The program attempts to disable or delete Microsoft's anti-spyware tool and suppress warning messages given to users.\n\nIt may also try to steal online banking passwords or other personal information by tracking users' keystrokes.\n\nMicrosoft said in a statement it is investigating what it called a criminal attack on its software. Earlier this week, Microsoft said it would buy anti-virus software maker Sybari Software to improve its security in its Windows and e-mail software. Microsoft has said it plans to offer its own paid-for anti-virus software but it has not yet set a date for its release. The anti-spyware program being targeted is currently only in beta form and aims to help users find and remove spyware - programs which monitor internet use, causes advert pop-ups and slow a PC's performance.\n", 'tech')
(u'Why Cell will get the hard sell\n\nThe world is casting its gaze on the Cell processor for the first time, but what is so important about it, and why is it so different?\n\nThe backers of the processor are big names in the computer industry. IBM is one of the largest and most respected chip-makers in the world, providing cutting edge technology to large businesses. Sony will be using the chip inside its PlayStation 3 console, and its dominance of the games market means that it now has a lot of power to dictate the future of computer and gaming platforms. The technology inside the Cell is being heralded as revolutionary, from a technical standpoint. Traditional computers - whether they are household PCs or PlayStation 2s - use a single processor to carry out the calculations that run the computer. The Cell technology, on the other hand, uses multiple Cell processors linked together to run lots of calculations simultaneously.\n\nThis gives it processing power an order of magnitude above its competitors. Whilst its rivals are working on similar technology, it is Sony\'s which is the most advanced. The speed of computer memory has been slowly increasing over the last few years, but the memory technology that accompanies the Cell is a huge leap in performance.\n\nUsing a technology called XDR, created by American firm Rambus, memory can run up to eight times faster than the current standard being promoted by Intel. Perhaps more important than any of the technology is the Cell\'s role in the imminent "war on living rooms". The big trend predicted for this year is the convergence of computers with home entertainment devices such as DVD players and hi-fis. Companies like Microsoft and Sony believe that there is a lot of money to be made by putting a computer underneath the TV of every household and then offering services such as music and video downloads, as well as giving an individual access to all the media they already own in one place.\n\nMicrosoft has already made its first tactical move into this area with its Windows Media Center software, which has been adopted by many PC makers. Sony had a stab at something similar with the PSX - a variation on the PlayStation - last year in Japan, although this attempt was generally seen as a failure. Both companies believe that increasing the capabilities of games consoles, to make them as powerful as PCs, will make the technology accessible enough to persuade buyers to give them pride of place on the video rack.\n\nSony and IBM want to make sure that the dominance of the PC market enjoyed by Microsoft and Intel is not allowed to extend to this market. By creating a radically new architecture, and using that architecture in a games console that is sure to be a huge seller, they hope that the Cell processor can become the dominant technology in the living room, shutting out their rivals. Once they have established themselves under the TV, there is no doubt that they hope to use this as a base camp to extend their might into our traditional PCs and instigate a regime change on the desktop. Cell is, in fact, specifically designed to be deployed throughout the house. The links between the multiple processors can also be extended to reach Cell processors in entirely different systems.\n\nSony hopes to put Cells in televisions, kitchen appliances and anywhere that could use any sort of computer chip. Each Cell will be linked to the others, creating a vast home network of computing power. Resources of the Cells across the house can be pooled to provide more power, and the links can also be used to enable devices to talk to each other, so that you can programme your microwave from your TV, for example. This digital home of the future depends on the widespread adoption of the Cell processor and there are, as with all things, a number of reasons it could fail. Because the processor is so different, it requires programmers to learn a different way of writing software, and it may be that the changeover is simply too difficult for them to master. You can also guarantee that Microsoft and Intel are not going to sit around and let Cell take over home computing without a fight. Microsoft is going to be pushing its Xbox 2 as hard as possible to make sure that its technology, not Sony\'s, will be under your tree next Christmas. Intel will be furiously working on new designs that address the problems of its current chips to create a rival technology to Cell, so that it doesn\'t lose its desktop PC dominance. If Cell succeeds in becoming the living room technology of choice, however, it could provide the jump-start to the fully digital home of the future. The revolution might not be televised, but it could well be played with a videogame controller.\n', 'tech')
(u'Gates opens biggest gadget fair\n\nBill Gates has opened the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, saying that gadgets are working together more to help people manage multimedia content around the home and on the move.\n\nMr Gates made no announcement about the next generation Xbox games console, which many gadget lovers had been hoping for. About 120,000 people are expected to attend the trade show which stretches over more than 1.5 million square feet and runs from 6 to 9 January. The latest trends in digital imaging, storage technologies, thinner flat screen and high-definition TVs, wireless and portable technologies, gaming, and broadband technologies will all be on show over the three days.\n\nMr Gates said that a lot of work had been done in the last year to sort out usability and compatibility issues between devices to make it easier to share content.\n\n"We predicted at the beginning of the decade that the digital approach would be taken for granted - but there was a lot of work to do. "What is fun is to come to the show and see what has been done. It is going even faster than we expected and we are excited about it." He highlighted technology trends over the last year that had driven the need to make technology and transferring content across difference devices "seamless". "Gaming is becoming more of a social thing and all of the social genres will use this rich communications. "And if we look at what has been going on with e-mail, instant messaging, blogging, entertainment - if we can make this seamless, we can create something quite phenomenal."\n\nMr Gates said the PC, like Microsoft\'s Media Centre, had a central role to play in how people would be making the most out of audio, video and images but it would not be the only device. "It is the way all these devices work together which will make the difference," he said. He also cited the success of the Microsoft Xbox video game Halo 2, released in November, which pushed Xbox console sales past PlayStation in the last two months of 2004 for the first time in 2004. The game, which makes use of the Xbox Live online games service, has sold 6.23 million copies since its release. "People are online and playing together and that really points to the future," he said. Several partnerships with device and hardware manufacturers were highlighted during Mr Gates\' speech, but there were few major groundbreaking new technology announcements. Although most of these affected largely US consumers, the technologies highlighted the kind of trends to come. These included what Mr Gates called an "ecosystem of technologies", like SBC\'s IPTV, a high-definition TV and digital video recorder that worked via broadband to give high-quality and fast TV. There were also other deals announced which meant that people could watch and control content over portable devices and mobile phones.\n\nCES features several more key speeches from major technology players, such as Intel and Hewlett Packard, as well as parallel conference sessions on gaming, storage, broadband and the future of digital music. About 50,000 new products will be unleashed at the tech-fest, which is the largest yet. Consumer electronics and gadgets had a phenomenal year in 2004, according to figures released by CES organisers the CEA on Tuesday. The gadget explosion signalled the strongest growth yet in the US in 2004. That trend is predicted to continue with wholesale shipments of consumer technologies expected to grow by 11% again in 2005.\n', 'tech')
(u"'Ultimate game' award for Doom 3\n\nSci-fi shooter Doom 3 has blasted away the competition at a major games ceremony, the Golden Joystick awards.\n\nIt was the only title to win twice, winning Ultimate Game of the year and best PC game at the awards, presented by Little Britain star Matt Lucas. The much-anticipated sci-fi horror Doom 3 shot straight to the top of the UK games charts on its release in August. Other winners included Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas which took the Most Wanted for Christmas prize. Only released last week, it was closely followed by Halo 2 and Half-Life 2, which are expected to be big hits when they are unleashed later this month.\n\nBut they missed out on the prize for the Most Wanted game of 2005, which went to the Nintendo title, The Legend of Zelda. The original Doom, released in 1994, heralded a new era in computer games and introduced 3D graphics. It helped to establish the concept of the first-person shooter. Doom 3 was developed over four years and is thought to have cost around $15m (8.3m). The top honour for the best online game of the year went to Battlefield Vietnam. The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay was handed the Unsung Hero Game of 2004. Its release was somewhat eclipsed by Doom 3, which was released on the same week. It was, however, very well received by gamers and was praised for its storyline which differed from the film released around the same time. Electronic Arts was named top publisher of the year, taking the crown from Nintendo which won in 2003. The annual awards are voted for by more than 200,000 readers of computer and video games magazines. Games awards like this have grown in importance. Over the last six years, the UK market for games grew by 100% and was worth a record 1,152m in 2003, according to a recent report by analysts Screen Digest.\n", 'tech')
(u'Kenyan school turns to handhelds\n\nAt the Mbita Point primary school in western Kenya students click away at a handheld computer with a stylus.\n\nThey are doing exercises in their school textbooks which have been digitised. It is a pilot project run by EduVision, which is looking at ways to use low cost computer systems to get up-to-date information to students who are currently stuck with ancient textbooks. Matthew Herren from EduVision told the BBC programme Go Digital how the non-governmental organisation uses a combination of satellite radio and handheld computers called E-slates. "The E-slates connect via a wireless connection to a base station in the school. This in turn is connected to a satellite radio receiver. The data is transmitted alongside audio signals." The base station processes the information from the satellite transmission and turns it into a form that can be read by the handheld E-slates. "It downloads from the satellite and every day processes the stream, sorts through content for the material destined for the users connected to it. It also stores this on its hard disc."\n\nThe system is cheaper than installing and maintaining an internet connection and conventional computer network. But Mr Herren says there are both pros and cons to the project. "It\'s very simple to set up, just a satellite antenna on the roof of the school, but it\'s also a one-way connection, so getting feedback or specific requests from end users is difficult."\n\nThe project is still at the pilot stage and EduVision staff are on the ground to attend to teething problems with the Linux-based system. "The content is divided into visual information, textual information and questions. Users can scroll through these sections independently of each other." EduVision is planning to include audio and video files as the system develops and add more content. Mr Herren says this would vastly increase the opportunities available to the students. He is currently in negotiations to take advantage of a project being organised by search site Google to digitise some of the world\'s largest university libraries. "All books in the public domain, something like 15 million, could be put on the base stations as we manufacture them. Then every rural school in Africa would have access to the same libraries as the students in Oxford and Harvard" Currently the project is operating in an area where there is mains electricity. But Mr Herren says EduVision already has plans to extend it to more remote regions. "We plan to put a solar panel at the school with the base station, have the E-slates charge during the day when the children are in school, then they can take them home at night and continue working." Maciej Sundra, who designed the user interface for the E-slates, says the project\'s ultimate goal is levelling access to knowledge around the world. "Why in this age when most people do most research using the internet are students still using textbooks? The fact that we are doing this in a rural developing country is very exciting - as they need it most."\n', 'tech')
(u"The gaming world in 2005\n\nIf you have finished Doom 3, Half Life 2 and Halo 2, don't worry. There's a host of gaming gems set for release in 2005.\n\n WORLD OF WARCRAFT \n\nThe US reception to this game from developers Blizzard has been hugely enthusiastic, with the title topping its competitors in the area of life-eating, high-fantasy, massively multiplayer role-player gaming. Solid, diverse, accessible and visually striking, it may well open up the genre like never before. If nothing else, it will develop a vast and loyal community. Released 25 February on PC. ICO 2 (WORKING TITLE) Ico remains a benchmark for PS2 gaming, a title that took players into a uniquely atmospheric and artistic world of adventure. The (spiritual) sequel has visuals that echo those of the original, but promises to expand the Ico world, with hero Wanda taking on a series of giants. The other known working title is Wanda And Colossus. Release date to be confirmed on PS2. THE LEGEND OF ZELDA \n\nThe charismatic cel imagery has been scrapped in favour of a dark, detailed aesthetic (realism isn't quite the right word) that connects more with Ocarina Of Time. Link resumes his more teenage incarnation too, though enemies, elements and moves look familiar from the impressive trailer that has been released. Horseback adventuring across a vast land is promised. Release date to be confirmed on GameCube. ADVANCE WARS DS The UK Nintendo DS launch line-up is still to be confirmed at time of writing, but titles that exploit its two-screen and touch capacity, like WarioWare Touched! and Sega's Feel The Magic, are making a strong impression in other territories. Personally, I can't wait for the latest Advance Wars, the franchise that has been the icing on the cake of Nintendo handheld gaming during the past few years. Release date to be confirmed on DS. S.T.A.L.K.E.R. \n\nFollowing in the high-spec footsteps of Far Cry and Half-Life 2, this looks like the key upcoming PC first-person shooter (with role-playing elements). The fact that it is inspired in part by Andrei Tarkovsky's enigmatic 1979 masterpiece Stalker and set in 2012 in the disaster zone, a world of decay and mutation, makes it all the more intriguing. Released 1 March on PC. METAL GEAR SOLID: SNAKE EATER \n\nMore Hideo Kojima serious stealth, featuring action in the Soviet-controlled jungle in 1964. The game see Snake having to survive on his wits in the jungle, including eating wildlife. Once again, expect cinematic cut scenes and polished production values. Released March on PS2. DEAD OR ALIVE ULTIMATE Tecmo's Team Ninja are back with retooled and revamped versions of Dead Or Alive 1 and 2. Here's the big, big deal though - they're playable over Xbox Live. Released 11 March on Xbox. KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLIC II Looks set to build on the acclaimed original Star Wars role playing game with new characters, new Force powers and a new set of moral decisions, despite a different developer. Released 11 February on Xbox and PC.\n", 'tech')
(u'Latest Opera browser gets vocal\n\nNet browser Opera 8.0, due for official release at the end of next month, will be "the most accessible browser on the market", according to its authors.\n\nThe latest version of the net browser can be controlled by voice command and will read pages aloud. The voice features, based on IBM technology, are currently only available in the Windows version. Opera can also magnify text by up to 10 times and users can create "style sheets", its developers say. This will enable them to view pages with colours and fonts that they prefer. But the browser does not yet work well with screen reader software often used by blind people, so its accessibility features are more likely to appeal to those with some residual vision. "Our mission was always to provide the best internet experience for everyone," said Opera spokeswoman, Berit Hanson. "So we would obviously not want to exclude disabled computer users."\n\nAnother feature likely to appeal to people with low vision is the ability to make pages fit to the screen width, which eliminates the need for horizontal scrolling.\n\nThe company points out that this will also appeal to anyone using Opera with a handheld device. The company says that features like voice activation are not solely aimed at visually impaired people. "Our idea was to take a first step in making human-computer interaction more natural," said Ms Hanson. "People are not always in a situation where they can access a keyboard, so this makes the web a more hands-free experience." Unlike commercially available voice recognition software, Opera does not have to be "trained" to recognise an individual voice. Around 50 voice commands are available and users will have to wear a headset which incorporates a microphone. The voice recognition function is currently only available in English. Opera is free to download but a paid-for version comes without an ad banner in the top right hand corner and with extra support. Opera began life as a research project - a spin-off from Norwegian telecoms company Telenor. Its browser is used by an estimated 10 million people on a variety of operating systems and a number of different platforms.\n', 'tech')
(u'Blind student \'hears in colour\'\n\nA blind student has developed software that turns colours into musical notes so that he can read weather maps.\n\nVictor Wong, a graduate student from Hong Kong studying at Cornell University in New York State, had to read coloured maps of the upper atmosphere as part of his research. To study "space weather" Mr Wong needed to explore minute fluctuations in order to create mathematical models. A number of solutions were tried, including having a colleague describe the maps and attempting to print them in Braille. Mr Wong eventually hit upon the idea of translating individual colours into music, and enlisted the help of a computer graphics specialist and another student to do the programming work.\n\n"The images have three dimensions and I had to find a way of reading them myself," Mr Wong told the BBC News website. "For the sake of my own study - and for the sake of blind scientists generally - I felt it would be good to develop software that could help us to read colour images." He tried a prototype version of the software to explore a photograph of a parrot. In order to have an exact reference to the screen, a pen and tablet device is used. The software then assigns one of 88 piano notes to individually coloured pixels - ranging from blue at the lower end of this scale to red at the upper end. Mr Wong says the application is still very much in its infancy and is only useful for reading images that have been created digitally. "If I took a random picture and scanned it and then used my software to recognise it, it wouldn\'t work that well."\n\nMr Wong has been blind from the age of seven and he thinks that having a "colour memory" makes the software more useful than it would be to a scientist who had never had any vision. "As the notes increase in pitch I know the colour\'s getting redder and redder, and in my mind\'s eye a patch of red appears." The colour to music software has not yet been made available commercially, and Mr Wong believes that several people would have to work together to make it viable. But he hopes that one day it can be developed to give blind people access to photographs and other images.\n', 'tech')
(u'New delay hits EU software laws\n\nA fresh delay has hit controversial new European Union rules which govern computer-based inventions.\n\nThe draft law was not adopted by EU ministers as planned at a Brussels meeting on Monday during which it was supposed to have been discussed. The fresh delay came after Polish officials had raised concerns about the law for the second time in two months. Critics say the law would favour large companies over small ones and could impact open-source software innovation. "There was at one point the intention to put the item on today\'s agenda. But in the end we could not put it on," an EU spokesman told the Reuters agency. He added that no date had been chosen for more discussion of the law.\n\nIn December, Poland requested more time to consider the issue because it was concerned that the law could lead to the patenting of pure computer software. Its ministers want to see the phrasing of the text of the Directive on the Patentability of Computer-Implemented Inventions changed so that it excludes software patenting. Poland is a large EU member, so its backing for the legislation is vital. The EU says the law would bring Europe more in line with how such laws work in the US, but this has caused some angry debate amongst critics and supporters. In the US, the patenting of computer programs and internet business methods is permitted. This means that the US-based Amazon.com holds a patent for its "one-click shopping" service. Critics say a similar model in Europe would hurt small software developers which do not have the legal and financial might of larger companies. But supporters say current law does not let big companies protect inventions which they have spent years developing.\n', 'tech')
(u'US blogger fired by her airline\n\nA US airline attendant suspended over "inappropriate images" on her blog - web diary - says she has been fired.\n\nEllen Simonetti, known as Queen of the Sky, wrote an anonymous semi-fictional account of her life in the sky. She was suspended by Delta in September. In a statement, she said she was initiating legal action against the airline for "wrongful termination". A Delta spokesperson confirmed on Wednesday that Ms Simonetti was no longer an employee. Delta has repeatedly declined to elaborate on what it calls "internal employee matters". A spokesperson reiterated this position on Wednesday, confirming only that Ms Simonetti was no longer with the company. The spokesperson also confirmed that there were "very clear rules" attached to the unauthorised use of Delta branding, including uniforms. Ms Simonetti announced on her blog she had been fired on 1 November.\n\nShe said in an official statement: "As a result of my suspension and subsequent termination without cause by Delta Airlines I am moving forward with filing a discrimination complaint with the Federal Government EEOC [US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission]." She added she had also hired a Texas-based law firm to initiate legal action for "wrongful termination, defamation of character and lost future wages." Ms Simonetti told the BBC News website she had received no warning or further explanation when she was suspended on 25 September. Queen of the Sky has received a lot of support and advice from the global blogging community since news of her suspension was brought to light on the BBC News website and others.\n\nHer story has highlighted concerns amongst the growing blogging community about conflicts of interest, employment law and free speech on personal websites. The blog, which she started in January as a way of getting over her mother\'s death, contains a mix of fictional and non-fictional accounts. Queen of the Sky developed over the months as a character in her own right, according to Ms Simonetti. In the postings, she made up fictional names for cities and other companies she mentioned to protect anonymity. But some postings contained images of herself in uniform. Of the 10 or so images only one showed Ms Simonetti\'s flight "wings". She removed them as soon as she was informed of her suspension. "I never meant it as something to harm my company and don\'t understand how they think it did harm them," Ms Simonetti said. A legal expert in the US speculated that Delta might be concerned that the fictional content on the blog may be linked back to the airline after the images were posted.\n\nDelta has been hit recently by pressures of rising fuel costs and fierce competition. It has said it needs to cut between 6,000 and 7,000 jobs and reduce costs by $5bn (2.7bn) a year. Analysts had warned recently that the airline might have to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy prevention. Last week, it struck a $1bn cost-cutting deal with its pilots which could save it from bankruptcy. The deal would see pilots accept a 32% pay cut in return for the right to buy 30 million Delta shares, unions said. And on Monday, it negotiated a deal to defer about $135m in debt which was due next year, until 2007. The airline also said it had agreed the terms of a $600m loan from American Express.\n', 'tech')
(u'Musical treatment for Capra film\n\nThe classic film It\'s A Wonderful Life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show Jerry Springer - The Opera.\n\nFrank Capra\'s 1946 movie starring James Stewart, is being turned into a 7m musical by producer Jon Thoday. He is working with Steve Brown, who wrote the award-winning musical Spend Spend Spend. A spokeswoman said the plans were in the "very early stages", with no cast, opening date or theatre announced.\n\nA series of workshops have been held in London, and on Wednesday a cast of singers unveiled the musical to a select group of potential investors. Mr Thoday said the idea of turning the film into a musical had been an ambition of his for almost 20 years. It\'s a Wonderful Life was based on a short story, The Greatest Gift, by Philip van Doren Stern. Mr Thoday managed to buy the rights to the story from Van Doren Stern\'s family in 1999, following Mr Brown\'s success with Spend Spend Spend. He later secured the film rights from Paramount, enabling them to use the title It\'s A Wonderful Life.\n', 'entertainment')
(u'Music mogul Fuller sells company\n\nPop Idol supremo Simon Fuller has sold his 19 Entertainment company to an US entrepreneur in a $156m (81.5m) deal.\n\nRobert Sillerman\'s Sports Entertainment Enterprises, which is to be renamed CFX, recently also bought an 85% share in the estate of Elvis Presley. Mr Fuller has been appointed to the CFX board and will plan and implement the company\'s creative strategy. The 19 firm handles a roster of music artists, TV shows and PR strategies for stars including the Beckhams. The deal sees Mr Fuller receive 64.5m in cash and about 1.9 million shares in Sports Entertainment. There will also be a further 19.2m in either cash or stocks by the end of the financial year in June. Mr Fuller has signed a long-term agreement with the company which will see him continue to expand and develop entertainment brands. He said: "This is a hugely exciting new partnership for myself and 19 Entertainment.\n\n"CKX will provide 19 with a powerful platform for global growth and allow us to fully take advantage of all the amazing opportunities that lie ahead. I cannot wait to get started."\n\nMr Fuller was the creative drive behind Pop Idol and its US offspring American Idol. 19 Management runs the careers of many of its successful contestants including Will Young, Gareth Gates and Kelly Clarkson. The company was set up 15 years ago by Mr Fuller, taking the name from his first successful single - 19 by Paul Hardcastle. Fuller was the driving force behind the Spice Girls phenomenon, using canny marketing and catchy pop songs to secure their place as the most lucrative girl group in history. He then put together S Club 7, who had their own TV show as well as a music career. Mr Sillerman\'s deal to buy the Presley estate sees him control the operation of Graceland, as well as money from the late star\'s music and films. Presley\'s daughter Lisa Marie retains possession of Graceland and many of her father\'s "personal effects".\n', 'entertainment')
(u'Rock group Korn\'s guitarist quits\n\nThe guitarist with US rock band Korn has quit the music business, saying he made the decision after experiencing a religious awakening.\n\nBrian \'Head\' Welch told a radio station in California that his bandmates respected his decision to leave. A replacement guitarist has yet to be named by Korn, who are currently at work on their eighth studio album. Welch added that he would appear at a church in Bakersfield to explain how he "got to this place in life". The remaining members of Korn, who are known for their hardcore brand of rock, said they hoped Welch "finds the happiness he is looking for".\n\nThe 34-year-old made reference to the band\'s aggressive brand of music and its young fans in his parting statement. "Anger is a good thing, and if kids want to listen to Korn, good, but there\'s happiness after the anger," he told his local radio station in Bakersfield. "I\'m going to show it through my actions, how much I love my fans," added Welch. Korn have enjoyed a moderate degree of chart success in the UK, with 10 singles breaking into the Top 40. Their best performance to date in the UK has been 2002\'s Here To Stay, which reached number 12, while their album Untouchables, released in the same year, made it to number four.\n', 'entertainment')
(u"Doves soar to UK album summit\n\nManchester rock band Doves have entered the UK album chart at number one with their new release, Some Cities.\n\nThe trio replace flamboyant US act Scissor Sisters at the top. The album follows single Black and White Town, which reached number six. R&B star Nelly has the new number one single with Over and Over, which sees him team up with Tim McGraw. Girls Aloud, Akon and Kaiser Chiefs all have new singles in the top ten, as do Futureheads and Usher.\n\nThe latest Elvis Presley re-release, (Marie's The Name) His Latest Flame, entered the chart at number three, one place ahead of Girls Aloud's Wake Me Up. Hip-hop performer Akon's Locked Up is at number five, while hotly-tipped Leeds band Kaiser Chiefs have their second chart hit at number six with Oh My God.\n\nFutureheads' cover of Kate Bush's Hounds of Love entered the chart at number eight, while Usher's Caught Up was a new entry at number nine. In the album chart, operatic quartet Il Divo's eponymous debut rose 23 places to number six, while crooner Tony Christie's Definitive Collection is a new entry at number 10, making it the highest-charting album of the singer's career.\n", 'entertainment')
(u'Lost Doors frontman movie found\n\nHistorians in Florida have discovered a 40-year-old clip of a clean-cut Jim Morrison appearing in a promotional film for his university.\n\nThe 1964 film shows the Doors frontman, who died aged 27 in 1971, playing the part of a young man who had been rejected by Florida State University. Morrison is seen quizzing a college administrator on why he was refused. "But what happened? How come my parents and the state and the university didn\'t look ahead?" he is seen asking.\n\n"It\'s incredible. He\'s so clean cut and soft-spoken," said Florida state archivist Jody Norman. "We know he was at Florida State University for a period of time and he did some acting when he was there," Norman added. The Doors were one of the most influential bands of the 1960s, with hits including Light My Fire and Riders On The Storm. Morrison was notorious for his wild lifestyle - and was accused of exposing himself and simulating a sex act at a Miami concert in 1969. He was found dead in the bath of his Paris apartment and died from heart problems, aggravated by alcohol. A coroner recorded a verdict of death by natural causes and his grave at the city\'s Pere Lachaise ceremony has become a shrine for fans.\n', 'entertainment')
(u'Ten-year tragedy of missing Manic\n\nRichey Edwards, guitarist and lyricist for The Manic Street Preachers, vanished 10 years ago, on 1 February 1995. His disappearance remains one of the most tragic mysteries in rock music.\n\nFor his devoted fans, Richey Edwards was an inspired and inspiring poet, a man who articulated their desperation and despair, who shouted the things most kept hidden. The Manic Street Preachers may only have become stadium-conquering rock giants since his disappearance - but Edwards was the figurehead for their first, dangerous and dazzling incarnation. Edwards did not feature in the original line-up of the band, though. Singer/guitarist James Dean Bradfield, bassist Nicky Wire and drummer Sean Moore were originally accompanied by a rhythm guitarist called Flicker. But Edwards replaced Flicker in time for the band\'s self-financed debut, Suicide Alley, after designing the record\'s artwork.\n\nAfter becoming a full-time member, Edwards became a critical part of the band, writing lyrics and playing guitar - though in many concerts, he was not actually plugged in. But the fiercely intelligent Edwards - who name-checked writers such as Sylvia Plath, George Orwell and Philip Larkin - battled depression, alcohol problems, eating disorders, and self-harm. By the time the band released their third album, The Holy Bible, in October 1994, Edwards had been admitted to hospital with depression. But in his last interview a few months later, seemed to be making plans for the future.\n\nEdwards walks out of the Embassy Hotel in London in the early morning, ahead of the band\'s US tour to promote The Holy Bible. In the following days, police issue a missing person alert and his parents, Graham and Sherry, plead for their son to let them know he is safe and well.\n\nPolice discover Edwards\' car in a car park near the Severn Bridge near Bristol - a notorious suicide spot. The discovery leads many to believe he has killed himself. The rest of the band stop touring and recording.\n\nThe band play their first concerts since Edwards\' disappearance as a trio, performing support slots for The Stone Roses on their UK stadium tour.\n\nThe Manic Street Preachers release their first music since Edwards\' disappearance. A Design For Life reaches number two in the UK singles chart. The album Everything Must Go follows.\n\nThe Manics win best band and best album for Everything Must Go at the Brit Awards.\n\nA fan says she saw Edwards in the hippy resort of Goa, India. Interpol are alerted but do not track him down.\n\nGraham and Sherry Edwards fly to the Spanish island of Fuerteventura six weeks after reports a man fitting their son\'s description has been seen in a bar called Underground. The report comes to nothing.\n\nEdwards\' sister Rachel makes an emotional TV appeal five years after the disappearance. "I\'d just like to say to him if he is able to listen that we do love him very much and we\'d like him to come back - me, mum and dad," she said.\n\nThe band play a concert in the Cuban capital, Havana - the first contemporary western rock band to play there.\n\nOn the seventh anniversary of his disappearance, police offer Edwards\' parents the opportunity to sign a death certificate. They refuse. The Big Issue magazine, which supports homelessness charities, prints the last known picture of Edwards in a fresh plea for information.\n\nA pair of trainers containing human bones washed up on the banks of the River Severn have no link to Edwards, police say.\n\nThe last song written by Edwards - a song called Judge Y\'Self, which was to have been used for the Judge Dredd film soundtrack - is released on the B-side compilation Lipstick Traces. A skeleton found by the River Severn is not Edwards, tests reveal.\n\nThe Manics\' seventh studio album, Lifeblood, features a song dedicated to Edwards called Cardiff Afterlife.\n\nThe remaining Manic Street Preachers members continue to pay a quarter of the band\'s royalties into an account held in his name.\n', 'entertainment')
(u"Oscar nominee Dan O'Herlihy dies\n\nIrish actor Dan O'Herlihy, who was nominated for best actor at the 1955 Oscars, has died at the age of 85.\n\nO'Herlihy, whose Oscar nomination was for Luis Bunuel's The Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, died at his home in Malibu, California, a spokesman said. The actor began his film career in the 1940s, playing Macduff to Orson Welles' Macbeth in 1948, and was also a regular in on the Dublin stage. He later appeared in Robocop and its sequel and cult TV show Twin Peaks. He played the CEO of Omni Consumer Products in 1987's Robocop and Robocop 2 three years later, and was saw mill owner Andrew Packard in Twin Peaks, also in 1990. Despite his Oscar nomination, he had few other lead roles and became a familiar supporting actor on TV and in film. The year he was nominated, the Academy Award was won by Marlon Brando for On the Waterfront.\n", 'entertainment')
(u'Vera Drake leads UK Oscar hopes\n\nMike Leigh\'s film Vera Drake will lead British hopes at this year\'s Academy Awards after getting three nominations.\n\nImelda Staunton was nominated for best actress for her role in the abortion drama, while Leigh received nods for best director and original screenplay. Kate Winslet was also nominated in the best actress category for her role in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. And Clive Owen and Sophie Okonedo both got nominated for supporting roles in Closer and Hotel Rwanda respectively. Owen has already been made bookmakers\' favourite for best supporting actor for the role in Closer that has already clinched him a Golden Globe award.\n\nAnd it is the first nomination for actress Okonedo, chosen for her performance in Hotel Rwanda, about the 1994 Rwandan genocide. It is also a debut nomination for Staunton, 49, who told BBC News 24 she had not thought the film would appeal to Academy voters. "It was an extraordinary time making the film and I can\'t believe what has happened this morning," she said. "I hope it just shows Mike up to be the extraordinary filmmaker he is. "We are also dealing with a very difficult subject matter and it is amazing to have it accepted in this way." Leigh, who had previously received three Oscar nominations for Secrets and Lies and Topsy Turvy, told BBC News 24 the latest success was "amazing". He said: "We hoped that Imelda Staunton would get a nomination but I never expected to get director and screenplay. It\'s just absolutely wonderful.\n\n"I think people are aware that it\'s about life - and I hope it is the warmth and compassion that really talks to people." Winslet said she was "ecstatic" about the fourth nomination of her career. "Being nominated means so much to me. To be nominated for a film that was released a while ago, I feel so honoured and overwhelmed," she said. John Woodward, chief executive of the UK Film Council, said it was "extremely heartening" to see British filmmaking talent recognised on the global stage. "Britain has a hugely talented industry and these nominations show why National Lottery investment in film pays major dividends for our culture and economy." Among a total of 24 British nominees, composer Andrew Lloyd Webber and lyricist Charles Hart are up for best original song for Learn To Be Lonely, from The Phantom of the Opera movie.\n\nCinematographer John Mathieson, who was nominated for Gladiator in 2001, is also up for The Phantom of the Opera. And Finding Neverland has garnered two more nominations for Brits. Gemma Jackson, who has also worked on Bridget Jones\'s Diary and Iris, is up for art direction while costume designer Alexandra Byrne, whose previous films have included Captain Corelli\'s Mandolin and Elizabeth, is in the running. The UK has two contenders in the best live action short film category. Wasp was made by ex-children\'s TV presenter Andrea Arnold while Little Terrorist is the work of Ashvin Kumar. This year\'s awards will be handed out in Hollywood on 27 February.\n', 'entertainment')
(u'US TV cuts nudity from BBC film\n\nA US TV network is editing BBC Films\' Dirty War to avoid showing the front of a nude woman being scrubbed down after a fictional chemical attack.\n\nIt is not worth showing "non-essential" nude scenes when indecency complaints are "aggressively pursued" by US TV watchdogs, said PBS\' Jacoba Atlas. Dirty War - screened uncut on BBC One last September - depicts a dirty bomb attack on the City of London. It is also being screened uncut on US cable channel HBO on 24 January. PBS said it will use extra footage for its broadcast, showing the woman "from a more discreet angle" instead.\n\nThe US Federal Communications Commission fined CBS $550,000 (306,814) last autumn for singer Janet Jackson\'s "wardrobe malfunction", during which her breast was exposed during a dance routine with Justin Timberlake. Many US networks and broadcasters are now more nervous about airing nudity, violence or bad language. Ms Atlas said PBS could put itself financially at risk if it showed the uncut version of Dirty War, and it could also deter many of its 170 individual stations from airing "an important film". "You want to pick your battles," she said. She added that PBS, which is a private, non-profit media enterprise owned and operated by the nation\'s 349 public television stations, is bolder about screening non-fiction or historical programming. PBS is seen in virtually all US homes with TV, and describes itself as a "trusted community resource" serving nearly 100 million people each week.\n', 'entertainment')
(u'Sir Paul rocks Super Bowl crowds\n\nSir Paul McCartney wowed fans with a live mini-concert at American football\'s Super Bowl - and avoided any Janet Jackson-style controversies.\n\nThe 62-year-old sang Hey Jude and other Beatles songs in a 12-minute set at half-time during the game in Florida. Last year, Jackson exposed a breast during a dance routine, causing outrage among millions of TV viewers and landing the CBS TV network a fine. Sir Paul, however, did nothing more racy than remove his jacket as he sang. Organisers were widely considered to be playing it safe this year by booking 62-year-old Sir Paul for his second Super Bowl show.\n\nThree years ago, he was invited to perform at the first Super Bowl after the September 11 attacks and performed his specially-written song Freedom. This time, he started off the show, at the Alltel Stadium in Jacksonville, Florida, with the Beatles numbers Drive My Car and Get Back. He then performed a mellow version of Live And Let Die, the James Bond theme he recorded with the band Wings. Finally, he closed the show with a rousing version of Hey Jude. The former Beatle resisted any temptation to refer to Janet Jackson\'s headline-grabbing performance last year, instead keeping banter between songs to a minimum in order to squeeze as much music as he could into his slot. The singer removed his black jacket halfway through the show - but any fans hoping for a second "Nipple-gate" were to be disappointed as he kept his red sweatshirt on underneath.\n\nEarlier, the Black Eyed Peas and Alicia Keys had provided the night\'s other high-profile entertainment by performing in a pre-game show. Black Eyed Peas singer Fergie was dressed in a tight orange top and purple hotpants, but nothing in her performance was likely to upset TV watchdogs. After the controversy last year - which saw CBS fined a record $550,000 (292,000) by federal regulators - Super Bowl organisers had turned to producer Don Mischer to oversee this year\'s half-time show. His previous production credits included Olympic opening and closing ceremonies. The Super Bowl is watched by an audience of 144.4 million in the US, with many of the people watching are said to tune in specifically to see the entertainment put on around the event. Michael Jackson, Aerosmith, Diana Ross, Gloria Estefan and Phil Collins are among the stars who have previously graced the Super Bowl stage.\n', 'entertainment')
(u'Greene sets sights on world title\n\nMaurice Greene aims to wipe out the pain of losing his Olympic 100m title in Athens by winning a fourth World Championship crown this summer.\n\nHe had to settle for bronze in Greece behind fellow American Justin Gatlin and Francis Obikwelu of Portugal. "It really hurts to look at that medal. It was my mistake. I lost because of the things I did," said Greene, who races in Birmingham on Friday. "It\'s never going to happen again. My goal - I\'m going to win the worlds." Greene crossed the line just 0.02 seconds behind Gatlin, who won in 9.87 seconds in one of the closest and fastest sprints of all time. But Greene believes he lost the race and his title in the semi-finals. "In my semi-final race, I should have won the race but I was conserving energy. "That\'s when Francis Obikwelu came up and I took third because I didn\'t know he was there. "I believe that\'s what put me in lane seven in the final and, while I was in lane seven, I couldn\'t feel anything in the race.\n\n"I just felt like I was running all alone. "I believe if I was in the middle of the race I would have been able to react to people that came ahead of me." Greene was also denied Olympic gold in the 4x100m men\'s relay when he could not catch Britain\'s Mark Lewis-Francis on the final leg. The Kansas star is set to go head-to-head with Lewis-Francis again at Friday\'s Norwich Union Grand Prix. The pair contest the 60m, the distance over which Greene currently holds the world record of 6.39 seconds. He then has another indoor meeting in France before resuming training for the outdoor season and the task of recapturing his world title in Helsinki in August. Greene believes Gatlin will again prove the biggest threat to his ambitions in Finland. But he also admits he faces more than one rival for the world crown. "There\'s always someone else coming. I think when I was coming up I would say there was me and Ato (Boldon) in the young crowd," Greene said. "Now you\'ve got about five or six young guys coming up at the same time."\n', 'sport')
(u'Pountney handed ban and fine\n\nNorthampton coach Budge Pountney has been fined 2,000 and banned from match-day coaching for six weeks for calling a referee "a disgrace".\n\nPountney was found guilty of bringing the game into disrepute at a Rugby Football Union disciplinary hearing in London on Thursday night. Pountney criticised referee Steve Lander\'s performance in Northampton\'s defeat by Saracens on 5 February. The last two weeks of the six-week ban are suspended. Pountney pleaded guilty to the offence before a panel consisting of chairman Robert Horner, Nigel Gillingham and Jeff Probyn. The ban means former Scotland international Pountney cannot enter the playing enclosure, technical areas or go near the touchline, tunnel or players and officials\' areas on the day of a game.\n', 'sport')
(u'Irish finish with home game\n\nRepublic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr has been granted his wish for a home game as the final World Cup qualifier.\n\nIreland will close their bid to reach the 2006 finals by playing Switzerland in Dublin on 12 October 2005. The Republic met the Swiss in their final Euro 2004 qualifier, losing 2-0 away and missing out on a place in the finals in Portugal. The Group Four fixtures were hammered out at a meeting in Dublin on Tuesday. The Irish open their campaign on 4 September at home to Cyprus and wrap up the 10-match series on 12 October 2005, with the visit of Switzerland. Manager Brian Kerr and FAI officials met representatives from Switzerland, France, Cyprus, Israel and the Faroe Islands to arrange the fixture schedule. Kerr had hoped to finish with a clash against France, but got the reigning European champions as their penultimate home match on 7 September 2005. The manager got his wish to avoid a repeat of finishing their bid to qualify with too many away matches.\n\nRepublic of Ireland v Cyprus; France v Israel; Switzerland v Faroe Islands.\n\nSwitzerland v Republic of Ireland; Israel v Cyprus; Faroe Islands v France.\n\nFrance v Republic of Ireland; Israel v Switzerland; Cyprus v Faroe Islands.\n\nRepublic of Ireland v Faroe Islands; Cyprus v France.\n\nCyprus v Israel.\n\nFrance v Switzerland; Israel v Republic of Ireland.\n\nSwitzerland v Cyprus; Israel v France.\n\nRepublic of Ireland v Israel; Faroe Islands v Switzerland.\n\nFaroe Islands v Republic of Ireland. August 17 - Faroe Islands v Cyprus.\n\nFrance v Faroe Islands; Switzerland v Israel.\n\nRepublic of Ireland v France; Cyprus v Switzerland; Faroe Islands v Israel.\n\nSwitzerland v France; Israel v Faroe Islands; Cyprus v Republic of Ireland.\n\nFrance v Cyprus; Republic of Ireland v Switzerland.\n', 'sport')
(u'McCall earns Tannadice reprieve\n\nDundee United manager Ian McCall has won a reprieve from the sack, with chairman Eddie Thompson calling for an end to speculation over his future.\n\nIt is understood that McCall would have been sacked if Sheffield Wednesday manager Paul Sturrock had been willing to return to Tannadice. But Sturrock has distanced himself from the position. "We\'re in a difficult situation. We must get out of it through the efforts of current personnel," said Thompson. "Ian McCall and I have had a long and detailed talk about a number of areas including the current league position and the manner of the exit from the League Cup," he added. "However, the continuing speculation is doing no one any good, especially as we have several crucial games coming up. "The minds of the coaching staff and the players have to be on those games and those games only. "Our season would of course improve considerably if in the next few weeks we achieved some improved league results and there is also the potential of another cup semi-final, subject to the draw.\n\n"All that matters at the present time - is us all having a total focus on the games ahead and a positive series of results being achieved." Dundee United players had expressed their solidarity with McCall after their side\'s 3-0 Scottish Cup win over Queen of the South. "We want the boss to stay, we don\'t want someone else coming in," said Jim McIntyre. "Hopefully now he gets the chance to stay." Keeper Tony Bullock echoed McIntyre\'s sentiments. "I think all the boys are behind Ian McCall," he added. "At the moment it is all speculation and we have got to rise above all that and do a job on the pitch."\n\nOn Saturday, Sturrock insisted that he had unfinished business with Wednesday, who are fourth in League One. "I\'ve only been here five months and I don\'t expect to be leaving very, very soon," he said. "I can appreciate the rumours because I\'ve emphasised my thoughts and ambitions to go back to Dundee United. "I can assure you the timescale is not the right one. "It (Dundee United) is my team. I had five years there as a coach, six as a player, two years as a manager - once you\'ve done that kind of thing, it\'s the result you look for. "The important thing now is I\'ve come here to do a job and I\'m going to try to finish it."\n', 'sport')
(u'O\'Connell rejects Lions rumours\n\nIreland and Munster lock Paul O\'Connell has dismissed media reports linking him to the captaincy of the Lions tour to New Zealand this summer.\n\nO\'Connell is rumoured to be among the front-runners for the job, but says he is totally focused on Sunday\'s Six Nations crunch clash with England. "I honestly don\'t think about these reports," he told BBC Sport. "The Lions thing is all speculation and newspaper talk, nothing more. I just ignore it and get on with my job." He added: "The only thing that annoys me after reading some reports is what the opposition locks think. "I can just imagine them saying \'I\'m going to show this guy what\'s what about second row play\'. That\'s the one thing that makes me cringe." O\'Connell, who made a try-scoring international debut against Wales two years ago, is enjoying his meteoric rise into rugby\'s shop window - but refuses to be drawn on the Lions.\n\n"I have spoken to Sir Clive Woodward a few times, but not for very long, certainly nothing about summer holidays," he joked. He also said he remains wary of wounded England\'s abilities coming into Sunday\'s game after two straight defeats, dismissing predictions of a certain Irish victory. "It\'s very dangerous to think that. This England team has so much experience and skill. You do not become a bad team overnight. "They have two world class game-breakers in Josh Lewsey and Jason Robinson, while Charlie Hodgson is just ready to click into place." He insisted Ireland will not make the mistake of being over-confident. "That\'s not going to happen in our squad. No Ireland team lining up to play England will ever fall into that trap," he said. "Every time we play England we know what a big task it is. Look at what they did to us two years ago. I remember that game all too well, and it was not a good feeling. "I came on as a replacement and we were losing 13-6, and ended up getting hammered 42-6, so I know what can happen when England come to Dublin. "They could so easily have been coming to Dublin with two wins and staring a Grand Slam in the face as well."\n', 'sport')
(u'England claim Dubai Sevens glory\n\nEngland beat Fiji 26-21 in a dramatic final in Dubai to win the first IRB Sevens event of the season.\n\nHaving beaten Australia and South Africa to reach the final, England fell behind to an early try against Fiji. They then took charge with scores from Pat Sanderson, Kai Horstman, Mathew Tait and Rob Thirlby, but Fiji rallied to force a tense finale. Scotland were beaten 33-15 by Samoa in the plate semi-final and Ireland lost 17-5 to Tunisia in the shield final. Mike Friday\'s England side matched their opponents for pace, power and skill in the final and led 19-7 at half-time. But Neumi Nanuku and Marika Vakacegu touched down for Fiji, only for a needless trip by Tuidriva Bainivalu on Geoff Appleford to allow England to run down the clock. "To be honest, England have wanted to win in Dubai for a very long time now, and the people here have wanted us to win for just as long," said Friday.\n\n"We didn\'t want to put pressure on ourselves but we are thankful we have achieved that and brought through some young talent at the same time that can hopefully play for the England \'15s\' in a few years." Portugal confirmed their impressive progress in Sevens rugby by recording a sudden-death win over France in the bowl final. Samoa won the plate title by edging out Argentina 21-19.\n\n', 'sport')
(u'Pearce keen on succeeding Keegan\n\nJoint assistant boss Stuart Pearce has admitted he would like to succeed Kevin Keegan as manager at Manchester City.\n\nKeegan has decided to step down as City manager when his contract comes to an end in 18 months. "You don\'t have to be Einstein to realise there will be a manager\'s job available at a really good club," Pearce told BBC GMR. "I will certainly be applying for it, although whether the board deem me good enough to take it, I do not know." Pearce initially joined City as a player under Keegan in 2001 before becoming part of the coaching staff. He was promoted to joint assistant-manager following the departure of Arthur Cox last summer.\n\nThe former England defender had a year as player-boss with Nottingham Forest eight seasons ago but has made no secret of his desire to have another crack at the job. He was linked with the manager\'s job at Oldham and Keegan has stated he would not get in the way if Pearce wanted to leave. But it now appears Pearce is keen to wait for his chance at City. He added: "By that time, I will have been here for five years so at least they will have had a good look at me and they are aware of my feelings with regard to being Kevin\'s successor. "Obviously, the issue is out of my hands but it is a fantastic job for anybody - I just hope it will be me."\n', 'sport')
(u'Moya sidesteps Davis Cup in 2005\n\nCarlos Moya has chosen not to help Spain try and defend the Davis Cup crown they won in Seville in November.\n\nMoya led Spain to victory over the USA but wants to focus on the Grand Slams in 2005, although insists he will return to the Davis Cup in 2006. "After two years of total commitment with the Davis Cup team... I have taken this difficult decision to concentrate on the regular circuit," said Moya. "They know that after this season they can count on me again if they so wish." The 1998 French Open champion is determined to make an impact in the major events after spending much of the last eight years in the top 10. "At the age of 29 I have set some tough goals in my professional career and this season I need to fix my objectives on specific dates and tournaments," he said. "Since the Davis Cup in Seville I have been working on my condition as well as technical and medical aspects of my game which will allow me to come into the big events of the year in top form."\n\nMoya began 2005 with victory in the Chennai Open on Sunday.\n', 'sport')
(u'Thanou desperate to make return\n\nGreek sprinter Katerina Thanou says she is eager to compete again after being cleared of missing a drugs test by an independent Greek tribunal.\n\nThanou, 30, was provisionally suspended for missing a test before the Olympics, but the decision was overturned. "The IAAF will decide if we can compete again in Greece and abroad," Thanou told To Vima newspaper in her first interview since the Athens Olympics. "If given the green light I will run again - that\'s the only thing I want." Thanou, 30, and her compatriot Kostas Kenteris were provisionally suspended by the IAAF in December for missing three drugs tests. The third was alleged to have been on the eve of the opening ceremony of the Athens Olympics.\n\nBut an independent tribunal of the Greek Athletics Federation overturned the provisional ban on 18 March. The IAAF - which said it was "very surprised" by the decision of the Greek tribunal - is deciding whether to appeal against the decision at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. However, Dick Pound, the chairman of the World Anti-Doping Authority, has said he will appeal against the decision if the IAAF does not. And Thanou and Kenteris face a criminal trial later this year for allegedly avoiding the test and then faking a motorcycle accident. Thanou said: "I can see how people can think the accident seemed like a childish excuse. "I cannot deny that we made a lot of mistakes during that time. I always said we needed a PR person. "An athlete would have to be very stupid to take illegal substances when he or she knows that they will undergo tests at any given moment. "I am a champion. I cannot risk everything I\'ve achieved in such a silly way."\n', 'sport')
(u'Preview: Ireland v England (Sun)\n\nLansdowne Road, Dublin\n\nSunday, 27 February\n\n1500 GMT\n\nBBC1, Radio 4 LW and this website\n\nIreland are going for their first Grand Slam since 1948 after two opening wins, and England represent their sternest test of the Championship so far. England were sloppy and leaderless in the defeats against Wales and France and another loss would be unthinkable. The pressure is on coach Andy Robinson and his side have to deliver.\n\nDespite England\'s dramatic dip in form since the World Cup final - they have lost eight of their last 13 matches - Ireland coach Eddie O\'Sullivan says his side should not underestimate the visitors. "Had they kicked their points they would have beaten France and that would have created a different landscape for Sunday," he said. "This is England we are talking about. They have a depth of talent and a very good record against Ireland. "They will target a victory in Dublin as the turning point in their Six Nations." The differences between the sides is also highlighted in the team selections for the Dublin encounter.\n\nIreland, despite having Gordon D\'Arcy still out injured, have been boosted by the return of star skipper Brian O\'Driscoll who missed the Scotland game with a hamstring injury. "The knowledge that the England game was coming up really helped during rehabilitation," he said. "The will to play in this game was enormous. It doesn\'t get much bigger than England at home." As well as entering the tournament without players like Jonny Wilkinson, Mike Tindall and Richard Hill, England have now lost two tighthead props in Julian White and Phil Vickery while blind-side flanker Lewis Moody is a major concern. Robinson, who received a lot of flak for the inclusion and then dropping of centre Mathew Tait, has kept faith with kicking fly-half Charlie Hodgson despite his horror show at Twickenham. If England slump in Dublin, it will be their worst run of results in the Championship since 1987.\n\nBut Robinson was bullish during the week about the game, saying that his side "are going there to get in their faces", and has identified the line-out and tackle area as the key to England\'s chances. And despite the recent results, skipper Jason Robinson believes there is nothing wrong with the mood in the camp. "There is no lack of confidence in the team," said the Sale full-back. "We have had a good week\'s training and we are all looking forward to the challenge. "I still believe in this team. I know if we get our game right we will win the games."\n\nG Murphy; G Dempsey, B O\'Driscoll, S Horgan, D Hickie; R O\'Gara, P Stringer; R Corrigan, S Byrne, J Hayes; M O\'Kelly, P O\'Connell; S Easterby, J O\'Connor, A Foley.\n\nF Sheahan, M Horan, D O\'Callaghan, E Miller, G Easterby, D Humphreys, K Maggs.\n\nJ Robinson (capt); M Cueto, J Noon, O Barkley, J Lewsey; C Hodgson, H Ellis; G Rowntree, S Thompson, M Stevens; D Grewcock, B Kay; J Worsley, L Moody, M Corry.\n\nA Titterrell, D Bell, S Borthwick, A Hazell, M Dawson, A Goode, O Smith.\n', 'sport')
(u'Yukos unit buyer faces loan claim\n\nThe owners of embattled Russian oil giant Yukos are to ask the buyer of its former production unit to pay back a $900m (479m) loan.\n\nState-owned Rosneft bought the Yugansk unit for $9.3bn in a sale forced by Russia to part settle a $27.5bn tax claim against Yukos. Yukos\' owner Menatep Group says it will ask Rosneft to repay a loan that Yugansk had secured on its assets. Rosneft already faces a similar $540m repayment demand from foreign banks. Legal experts said Rosneft\'s purchase of Yugansk would include such obligations. "The pledged assets are with Rosneft, so it will have to pay real money to the creditors to avoid seizure of Yugansk assets," said Moscow-based US lawyer Jamie Firestone, who is not connected to the case. Menatep Group\'s managing director Tim Osborne told the Reuters news agency: "If they default, we will fight them where the rule of law exists under the international arbitration clauses of the credit."\n\nRosneft officials were unavailable for comment. But the company has said it intends to take action against Menatep to recover some of the tax claims and debts owed by Yugansk. Yukos had filed for bankruptcy protection in a US court in an attempt to prevent the forced sale of its main production arm. The sale went ahead in December and Yugansk was sold to a little-known shell company which in turn was bought by Rosneft. Yukos claims its downfall was punishment for the political ambitions of its founder Mikhail Khodorkovsky and has vowed to sue any participant in the sale.\n', 'business')
(u'Euronext joins bid battle for LSE\n\nPan-European stock market Euronext has approached the London Stock Exchange (LSE) about a possible takeover bid.\n\n"The approach is at an early stage and therefore does not require a response at this point," LSE said. Talks with the European stock market and with rival bidder Deutsche Boerse will continue, the LSE said. Last week, the group rejected a 1.3bn ($2.5bn) takeover offer from Deutsche Boerse, claiming that it undervalued the business. LSE saw its shares surge 4.9% to a new high of 583p in early trade, following the announcement on Monday.\n\nThe offer follows widespread media speculation that Euronext would make an offer for LSE. Experts now widely expect a bidding war for Europe\'s biggest stock market, which lists stocks with a total capitalisation of 1.4 trillion, to break out. Commentators say that a deal with Euronext, which owns the Liffe derivatives exchange in London and combines the Paris, Amsterdam and Lisbon stock exchanges, could potentially offer the LSE more cost savings than a deal with Deutsche Boerse.\n\nA weekend report in the Telegraph had quoted an unnamed executive at Euronext as saying the group would make a cash bid to trump Deutsche Boerse\'s offer. "Because we already own Liffe in London, the cost savings available to us from a merger are far greater than for Deutsche Boerse," the newspaper quoted the executive as saying. Euronext chief executive Jean-Francois Theodore is reported to have already held private talks with LSE\'s chief executive Clara Furse. Further reports had suggested that Euronext could make an offer in excess of the LSE\'s 533p a share closing price on Friday. However, Euronext said it could not guarantee "at this stage" that a firm offer would be made for LSE. There has been extensive speculation about a possible takeover of the company since an attempted merger with Deutsche Boerse failed in 2000.\n', 'business')
(u'US adds more jobs than expected\n\nThe US economy added 337,000 jobs in October - a seven-month high and far more than Wall Street expectations.\n\nIn a welcome economic boost for newly re-elected President George W Bush, the Labor Department figures come after a slow summer of weak jobs gains. Jobs were created in every sector of the US economy except manufacturing. While the separate unemployment rate went up to 5.5% from 5.4% in September, this was because more people were now actively seeking work.\n\nThe 337,000 new jobs added to US payrolls in October was twice the 169,000 figure that Wall Street economists had forecast. In addition, the Labor Department revised up the number of jobs created in the two previous months - to 139,000 in September instead of 96,000, and to 198,000 in August instead of 128,000. The better than expected jobs data had an immediate upward effect on stocks in New York, with the main Dow Jones index gaining 45.4 points to 10,360 by late morning trading. "It looks like the job situation is improving and that this will support consumer spending going into the holidays, and offset some of the drag caused by high oil prices this year," said economist Gary Thayer of AG Edwards & Sons.\n\nOther analysts said the upbeat jobs data made it more likely that the US Federal Reserve would increase interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 2% when it meets next week. "It should empower the Fed to clearly do something," said Robert MacIntosh, chief economist with Eaton Vance Management in Boston. Kathleen Utgoff, commissioner of the Bureau of Labor, said many of the 71,000 new construction jobs added in October were involved in rebuilding and clean-up work in Florida, and neighbouring Deep South states, following four hurricanes in August and September. The dollar rose temporarily on the job creation news before falling back to a new record low against the euro, as investors returned their attention to other economic factors, such as the US\'s record trade deficit. There is also speculation that President Bush will deliberately try to keep the dollar low in order to assist a growth in exports.\n', 'business')
(u'Barclays profits hit record level\n\nBarclays, the UK\'s third-biggest bank, has seen annual pre-tax profits climb to record levels boosted by a sharp rise in business at its investment arm.\n\nProfits for the year to 31 December rose 20% to 4.6bn ($8.6bn). Barclays\' chief John Varley said the bank had "caught the winds" of a very strong world economy. Earnings at Barclays Capital investment bank rose 25% to 1.04bn, but investment in branch operations held back growth in its UK retail business.\n\nThe group is the first of Britain\'s five big banks to report 2004 results. According to analysts\' forecasts, HSBC, the biggest UK bank by stock market valuation, will report profits of 9.4bn later this month.\n\nBarclays results were in line with market expectations. Its Global Investors wing made 347m, an 82% jump on 2003 figures. Profits at Barclaycard rose by 5% to 801m but were said to have been affected by a series of interest rate rises and investment to grow its customer base. The bank also blamed margins pressure on its mortgage business and spending on its branches over the past year for a 1% fall in profits in its UK retail division to 1.13bn.\n\n"The outlook for 2005 is good as a result of balance sheet growth and investments made in 2004," Mr Varley said. Barclays cautioned that growth this year may be slower than in 2004 on the back of softer US and Chinese economies and the impact of interest rate rises on household spending in the UK. It added its bid to acquire a controlling stake in South Africa\'s leading retail bank Absa, was being considered by regulatory authorities. Speaking on BBC Radio 4, Mr Varley declined to be drawn on reports that Barclays had held merger talks with US bank Wells Fargo. A tie-up between Barclays and California-based Wells Fargo would create the world\'s fourth biggest bank, valued at $180bn. At 1405 GMT, shares in Barclays were trading down 0.67% at 590 pence. "The headline numbers are in line, but the story is costs," said analyst Alex Potter at Lehman Brothers. "They are a bit more aggressive than we had expected. The cost overshoot is not in Barclays Capital but in the UK bank."\n', 'business')
(u'UK bank seals South Korean deal\n\nUK-based bank Standard Chartered said it would spend $3.3bn (1.8bn) to buy one of South Korea\'s main retail banks.\n\nStandard Chartered said acquiring Korea First Bank (KFB) fulfilled a strategic objective of building a bigger presence in Asia\'s third largest economy. Its shares fell nearly 3% in London as the bank raised funds for the deal by selling new stocks worth 1bn ($1.8bn), equal to 10% of its share capital. Standard Chartered expects about 16% of future group revenue to come from KFB.\n\nThe South Korean bank will also make up 22% of the group\'s total assets. The move, a year after Citigroup beat Standard Chartered to buy Koram bank, would be the South Korean financial sector\'s biggest foreign takeover. This time around, Standard Chartered is thought to have beaten HSBC to the deal. KFB is South Korea\'s seventh largest bank, with 3 million retail customers, 6% of the country\'s banking market and an extensive branch network.\n\nThe country\'s banking market is three times the size of Hong Kong\'s with annual revenues of $44bn. Standard Chartered has its headquarters in London but does two thirds of its business in Asia, and much of the rest in Africa. "We\'re comfortable with the price paid...the key here has been speed and decisiveness in making sure that we won," said Standard Chartered chief executive Mervyn Davies at a London press conference. Standard Chartered said KFB was a "well-managed, conservatively run bank with a highly skilled workforce" and represented a "significant acquisition in a growth market". In London, Standard Chartered\'s sale of 118 million new shares to institutional investors pushed its share price down, and contributing to the FTSE 100\'s 0.3% decline. Standard Chartered\'s shares were 28 pence lower at 925p by midday. Some analysts also queried whether Standard Chartered had overpaid for KFB. The deal, which requires regulatory approval, is expected to be completed by April 2005 and to be earnings accretive in 2006, Standard Chartered said.\n\nRival banking giant HSBC, which is based in London and Hong Kong, was also in the running. Standard Chartered is believed to have gained the initiative by putting together a bid during the Christmas break. "They were able to move so quickly it caught HSBC by surprise," the Financial Times newspaper quoted an insider in the talks as saying. HSBC will now have to wait for the next South Korean bank in line to be sold off - thought likely to be Korea Exchange Bank, also currently in the hands of a US group. Standard Chartered said it was buying 100% of KFB, an agreement that would bring an end to the bank\'s complex dual ownership. The South Korean government owns 51.4% of KFB, while the remaining shareholding, and operational control, are in the hands of US private equity group Newbridge Capital. Newbridge bought its stake during the government\'s nationalisation of several banks in the wake of the 1997 Asia-wide currency crisis which crippled South Korea\'s financial institutions.\n\nSouth Korea\'s economy is expected to grow by 4.5% this year. Although often thought of an export-driven economy, South Korea\'s service sector has overtaken manufacturing in the last decade or so. Services now make up roughly 40% of the economy, and consumer spending and retail banking have become increasingly important. In the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis, the government encouraged the growth of consumer credit. Bad loan problems followed; LG Card, the country\'s biggest credit card provider, has been struggling to avoid bankruptcy for months, for instance. But analysts believe South Korea\'s financial services industry is still in its infancy, offering plenty of scope for new products. Standard Chartered sees "the opportunity to create value by the introduction of more sophisticated banking products". Since 1999, KFB has been restructured from a wholesale bank into a retail bank focused on mortgage lending, which makes up 45% of its loans.\n', 'business')
(u'Oil rebounds from weather effect\n\nOil prices recovered in Asian trade on Tuesday, after falling in New York on milder winter weather across the US.\n\nWith winter temperatures staying relatively high in the northern US, a barrel of light crude ended Monday down $1.33 to $42.12. However crude prices have rebounded in Asia, rising to $42.30 a barrel for February delivery. In London, trading of Brent crude was suspended for a public holiday, but the price fell to $39.20 in the Far East.\n\nWith milder temperatures expected to continue in the northern parts of the US over the next few days at least, analysts have said the price of oil may fall further - even if the decline was only temporary. "Weather has been the Achilles\' heel of this market," said ABN AMRO analyst John Brady. "But it is winter in the northeast. Eventually we\'ll get another cold blast." Despite a fall of more than $12 a barrel from the record highs reached in late October, the price of crude oil remains almost 30% higher than year-ago levels. Prices rose last week after militant attacks in Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia, briefly renewed fears that the supply chain might be broken in the world\'s leading crude exporter. "The market was panicked but fears essentially evaporated... since there was no follow-up," said Deborah White, senior economist for energy at SG Securities in Paris.\n', 'business')
(u'Market unfazed by Aurora setback\n\nAs the Aurora limped back to its dock on 20 January, a blizzard of photos and interviews seemed to add up to an unambiguous tale of woe.\n\nThe ship had another slice of bad luck to add to its history of health scares and technical trouble. And its owner, P&O Cruises - now part of the huge US Carnival Corporation - was looking at a significant slice chopped off this year\'s profits and a potential PR fiasco. No-one, however, seems to have told the stock markets. The warning of a five-cent hit to 2005 earnings came just 24 hours after one of the world\'s biggest investment banks had upped its target for Carnival\'s share price, from 35 to 36.20. Other investors barely blinked, and by 1300 GMT Carnival\'s shares in London were down a single penny, or 0.03%, at 32.26.\n\nWhy the mismatch between the public perception and the market\'s response? "The Aurora issue had been an ongoing one for some time," says Deutsche Bank\'s Simon Champion. "It was clearly a source of uncertainty for the company - it was a long cruise, after all. But the stock market is very good at treating these issues as one-off events."\n\nDespite its string of bad luck, he pointed out, Aurora is just one vessel in a large Carnival fleet, the UK\'s P&O Princess group having been merged into the much larger US firm in 2003. And generally speaking, Carnival has a reputation for keeping its ships pretty much on schedule. "Carnival has an incredibly strong track record," Mr Champion.\n\nSimilarly, analysts expect the impact on the rest of the cruise business to be limited. The hundreds of disappointed passengers who have now had to give up the opportunity to spend the next three months on the Aurora have got both a refund and a credit for another cruise. That should mitigate some of the PR risk, both for Carnival and its main competitor, Royal Caribbean. "While not common, cancellations for technical reasons are not entirely unusual in the industry," wrote analysts from Citigroup Smith Barney in a note to clients on Friday. "Moreover, such events typically have a limited impact on bookings and pricing for future cruises." After all, the Aurora incident may be big news in the UK - but for Carnival customers elsewhere it\'s unlikely to make too much of a splash.\n\nAssuming that Citigroup is right, and demand stays solid, the structure of the industry also works in Carnival\'s favour. In the wake of P&O Princess\'s takeover by Carnival, the business is now to a great extent a duopoly. Given the expense of building, outfitting and running a cruise ship, "slowing supply growth" is a certainty, said David Anders at Merrill Lynch on Thursday. In other words, if you do want a cruise, your options are limited. And with Carnival remaining the market leader, it looks set to keep selling the tickets - no matter what happens to the ill-fated Aurora in the future.\n', 'business')
(u"China Aviation seeks rescue deal\n\nScandal-hit jet fuel supplier China Aviation Oil has offered to repay its creditors $220m (117m) of the $550m it lost on trading in oil futures.\n\nThe firm said it hoped to pay $100m now and another $120m over eight years. With assets of $200m and liabilities totalling $648m, it needs creditors' backing for the offer to avoid going into bankruptcy. The trading scandal is the biggest to hit Singapore since the $1.2bn collapse of Barings Bank in 1995. Chen Jiulin, chief executive of China Aviation Oil (CAO), was arrested by at Changi Airport by Singapore police on 8 December. He was returning from China, where he had headed when CAO announced its trading debacle in late-November. The firm had been betting heavily on a fall in the price of oil during October, but prices rose sharply instead.\n\nAmong the creditors whose backing CAO needs for its restructuring plan are banking giants such as Barclay's Capital and Sumitomo Mitsui, as well as South Korean firm SK Energy. Of the immediate payment, the firm - China's biggest jet fuel supplier - said it would be paying $30m out of its own resources. The rest would come from its parent company, China Aviation Oil Holding Company in Beijing. The holding company, owned by the Chinese government, holds most of CAO's Singapore-listed shares. It cut its holding from 75% to 60% on 20 October.\n", 'business')
(u'Europe blames US over weak dollar\n\nEuropean leaders have openly blamed the US for the sharp rise in the value of the euro.\n\nUS officials were talking up the dollar, they said, but failing to take action to back up their words. Meeting in Brussels, finance ministers of the 12 eurozone countries voiced their concern that the rise of the european currency was harming exports. The dollar is within touching distance of an all-time low reached earlier in November. At 0619 GMT on Tuesday, the dollar was up slightly at just above $1.29 to the euro, and buying 105.6 yen in Tokyo. It rallied briefly on Monday amid signs that oil prices are easing.\n\nBut analysts said the respite was likely to be only temporary. The European ministers\' comments, said Junya Tanase of JPMorgan Chase bank in Tokyo, were "generally too weak to produce a market reaction".\n\nStill, by the standards of diplomacy the European ministers were forthright. Nicolas Sarkozy of France said he and his colleagues were unanimous in their worry that the decline of the dollar would hit Europe\'s economies by eating into their exports. "We are concerned about these developments, which are destabilising, and which are linked to the accumulation of deficits by our American friends," he said. The comments come a day after US Treasury Secretary John Snow said a strong dollar was "in America\'s interest".\n\nBut that was not enough for Mr Sarkozy.\n\n"If the Americans were to change their policy, it\'s up to them to say so," he said. And the European Union\'s monetary affairs commissioner, made it clear that action was necessary. "I fully welcome the words of Mr Snow," said Joaquin Almunia, "but we will need to see decisions adopted in that direction. "If the imbalances in the US economy are not adjusted in the future, the decision in the market will be as in the past weeks." Economists point out that whatever Europe says, in the short term a weaker dollar is a boon to President George W Bush\'s administration. Not only does it boost US exports, but it also makes the budget deficit easier to fund. On the other hand, slower European exports would mean slower EU growth - potentially reducing the demand for US goods.\n', 'business')
(u'No seasonal lift for house market\n\nA swathe of figures have provided further evidence of a slowdown in the UK property market.\n\nThe Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML), British Bankers Association (BBA) and Building Societies Association (BSA) all said mortgage lending was slowing. CML figures showed gross lending fell by 4% in November as the number of people buying new homes fell. Elsewhere, the BBA added underlying mortgage lending rose by 4m in November, compared to October\'s 4.29m. The CML said that loans for new property purchases fell 25% year-on-year to 85,000 - the lowest total seen since February 2003.\n\nData from the CML showed lending fell to just over 25bn in November, from 25.5bn a year earlier. Separate figures from the Building Societies Association showed the value of mortgage approvals -- loans agreed but not yet made -- stood 32% lower than at the same time last year, at a seasonally-adjusted 2.98bn. The figures come hot on the heels of new data from property website Rightmove which suggested owners must indulge in a "winter sale" and slash prices by up to 8%. Miles Shipside, commercial director at Rightmove, said sellers would have to be "more realistic with their asking prices" to tempt buyers. The average asking price of a home fell by more than 600 from 190,329 in November to 189,733 in December, while the length of time it takes to sell a home rose to 81 days from 53 in the summer.\n\nRightmove said estate agents were set to enter 2005 with a third more properties on their books than a year ago. "Even once the quieter holiday period is over, sellers will find themselves competing with a lot of other properties on the market. In any business, excess supply and low demand means one thing - cut prices," Mr Shipside said.\n\n"The proof is that some properties that have been appropriately discounted are selling, even in the current market." Overall, asking prices have fallen 3.3% from their July peaks as the equivalent of 6,500 has been cut from an average property. A host of mortgage lenders and economists have predicted that property prices will either fall or stagnate in 2005. "What is apparent is a picture of a slowing market, but one that should remain stable as we return to more normal volumes of lending over 2005 as a whole," CML director general Michael Coogan said. "It\'s a fairly consistent picture, showing that mortgage demand has fallen back again, which is consistent with a continuing correction in the housing market," Investec economist Philip Shaw said. "However, the figures do suggest only a modest weakening, and we stand by our view that the property market will remain in the doldrums for some time, though a collapse is still unlikely."\n', 'business')
(u'Hewitt decries \'career sexism\'\n\nPlans to extend paid maternity leave beyond six months should be prominent in Labour\'s election manifesto, the Trade and Industry Secretary has said.\n\nPatricia Hewitt said the cost of the proposals was being evaluated, but it was an "increasingly high priority" and a "shared goal across government". Ms Hewitt was speaking at a gender and productivity seminar organised by the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC). Mothers can currently take up to six months\' paid leave - and six unpaid. Ms Hewitt told the seminar: "Clearly, one of the things we need to do in the future is to extend the period of payment for maternity leave beyond the first six months into the second six months. "We are looking at how quickly we can do that, because obviously there are cost implications because the taxpayer reimburses the employers for the cost of that."\n\nMs Hewitt also announced a new drive to help women who want to work in male dominated sectors, saying sexism at work was still preventing women reaching their full potential. Plans include funding for universities to help female science and engineering graduates find jobs and "taster courses" for men and women in non-traditional jobs. Women in full-time work earn 19% less than men, according to the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC).\n\nThe minister told delegates that getting rid of "career sexism" was vital to closing the gender pay gap.\n\n"Career sexism limits opportunities for women of all ages and prevents them from achieving their full potential. "It is simply wrong to assume someone cannot do a job on the grounds of their sex," she said. Earlier, she told BBC Radio 4\'s Today programme: "What we are talking about here is the fact that about six out of 20 women work in jobs that are low-paid and typically dominated by women, so we have got very segregated employment. "Unfortunately, in some cases, this reflects very old-fashioned and stereotypical ideas about the appropriate jobs for women, or indeed for men. "Career sexism is about saying that engineering, for instance, where only 10% of employees are women, is really a male-dominated industry. Construction is even worse. "But it is also about saying childcare jobs are really there for women and not suitable for men. Career sexism goes both ways."\n\nShe added that while progress had been made, there was still a gap in pay figures. "The average woman working full-time is being paid about 80p for every pound a man is earning. For women working part-time it is 60p." The Department for Trade and Industry will also provide funding to help a new pay experts panel run by the TUC.\n\nIt has been set up to advise hundreds of companies on equal wage policies. Research conducted by the EOC last year revealed that many Britons believe the pay gap between men and women is the result of "natural differences" between the sexes. Women hold less than 10% of the top positions in FTSE 100 companies, the police, the judiciary and trade unions, according to their figures. And retired women have just over half the income of their male counterparts on average.\n', 'politics')
(u'MPs tout Lords replacement plan\n\nA group of MPs has tried to raise the pressure on Tony Blair over reform to the House of Lords by publishing a detailed blueprint for change.\n\nThe cross-party group has unveiled a draft bill proposing a smaller second chamber in which 70% of members would be elected. MPs and peers have failed to agree on reform since 1999 when 600 hereditaries lost their seats. The group says it can win support for removing the last 92 hereditaries. The government postponed plans to remove the remaining hereditary peers because they said they were unlikely to succeed after opposition in the Lords. Tony Blair has argued. there needs to be consensus on reforms. There have been suggestions there will be proposals for changing at least the powers of the Lords in Labour\'s manifesto.\n\nBut the all-party group, including Tories Ken Clarke and Sir George Young, Labour\'s Robin Cook and Tony Wright and Liberal Democrat Paul Tyler, is confident its plan would win support from a "large majority". And they list former Conservative leader William Hague and former Labour leader Neil Kinnock as supporters of the plans. The group says the British public and a clear majority of MPs support replacing the Lords with a largely-elected second chamber. Their plan would see the House of Lords being renamed the Second Chamber of Parliament, and its members would be known as MSCPs.\n\nThere would be 385 MSCPs, including 270 elected members, 87 appointed members and 16 bishops. They would serve for between 12 and 14 years. Mr Cook said holding elections for MSCPs on the same day as those for MPs might help motivate the electorate and increase voter turnout. He added: "Over the last year I have seen many statements from senior figures of this government insisting the public must have the right of choice. "What could be more important than a choice of the people who sit in our Parliament?"\n\nThe group believes pressure is growing for change and the government\'s current position is unsustainable. It wants all three main parties to include a commitment to a "largely democratic" second chamber in their manifestos. Mr Clarke said the issue "went to the heart of reforming the health of the British political system". And Mr Tyler said the prime minister\'s view that there was no agreement on the shape of the future of the Lords was flawed. "The problem, I think, in the prime minister\'s mind is there doesn\'t appear to be a consensus that includes him," he said. "We are providing a consensus". The Elect the Lords Campaign said the draft bill was an important contribution to the debate. "We believe this draft bill is detailed enough to form the basis of closer parliamentary scrutiny," said co-ordinator Peter Facey. "In lieu of any other such clear proposals, the government must permit that to happen."\n', 'politics')
(u'Ban on hunting comes into force\n\nFox hunting with dogs is now illegal in England and Wales after a ban on the activity came into force overnight.\n\nThe law faces a stiff test this weekend, with the Countryside Alliance saying many hunts will be out in force. Chief police officers spokesman Nigel Yeo said he expected most people would obey the law - by drag hunting or chasing foxes then shooting them. He said police would challenge the "one of two isolated hunts" which are threatening to break the law.\n\nBut Simon Hart of the Countryside Alliance has questioned how police will ensure there are no violations. "The definitions of legal and illegal hunting are so blurred that the police are being asked to make impossible judgements. "You can hunt a rat, but not a mouse, a rabbit but not a hare, an artificial scent, but not a real one," he said.\n\nThe Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, has so far issued no instructions to police on how they should deal with hunters who violate the law. He said he will consult the Director of Public Prosecutions and the police "in the near future" to decide what measures to take with regards to hunting prosecutions. He has rejected a "blanket policy" of not enforcing the ban until the House of Lords has considered its legality. John Cooper, a barrister and chairman of the League Against Cruel Sports, said the anti-hunting lobby expects the authorities to prosecute wherever there is clear evidence of illegal hunting practices. He said police had "acknowledged their duty to investigate allegations of hunting offences".\n\nThe Beaufort Hunt had one pack out on Thursday and has promised a hunt this weekend. Under the new law hunters have a number of legal options available to them.\n\nAs well as being able to mount a hunt for an artificial scent, it will still be legal for the hunts to "flush out" foxes, as long as they shoot their quarry rather than set the hounds on them. "We are not going away. We will keep these hounds going, we will keep this community going and in the end we will come back and hunt when hunting is legal again," hunt master, Captain Ian Farquhar, said. But Tony Banks, Labour MP for West Ham, said the issue would soon disappear, and that "people in a few years time will be wondering what it was all about". He said had the government not prevaricated since 1997 in introducing the ban, hunting with dogs would have passed into history like other former country pursuits such as otter hunting and badger baiting. "Let the election decide this because the Conservatives have made clear that if they get elected into government they will restore hunting," he said.\n', 'politics')
(u'End Bush \'denial\' Blair tells EU\n\nTony Blair is urging European leaders to wake up from their "state of denial" over President Bush\'s re-election.\n\n"America has spoken. The rest of the world should listen," the prime minister said in an interview with The Times newspaper, published on Friday. Mr Blair is at a summit in Brussels, where Iraq and European justice and immigration plans are on the agenda. French President Jacques Chirac reacted to his warning by saying Europe instead needed to reinforce its own unity. Mr Blair has probably been closer to President Bush than any other European leader.\n\nHe said some people were in "a sort of state of denial" about the US election result but predicted a more "receptive mood" would emerge soon. America needed to listen to the world too, he said. "The fact is that President Bush is there for four years. He is there because the American people have chosen him," he argued. He also made clear he intended to take seriously what he perceives as his role in bringing the two continents together.\n\nBritain was "uniquely placed" to make out the common ground because of its strong alliance with the US, he suggested. He admitted he had gone to bed at 2230GMT, well before the American polls closed, thinking Mr Kerry might have won. He woke up at 0530GMT to discover Mr Bush had won but declined to say if he was pleased with the eventual result. His words about President Bush met a cool reception from Jacques Chirac. The French president told reporters: "Europe today has more than ever the need, the necessity, to reinforce itself and its dynamism and unity. "That is the goal of the constitution in a world that is more multi-polar than ever."\n\nMr Chirac will miss an address to the summit from Iraqi interim leader Iyad Allawi, who this week criticised nations which took a "spectator" role to Iraq\'s reconstruction. Mr Chirac denied there was any snub - he is going to a memorial service for the United Arab Emirates\' late leader and says he would be happy to meet Mr Allawi. He also signed a communiqu&#233; stressing the EU\'s commitment to securing a stable and unified Iraq. The EU also confirmed a new $21m aid package. The communiqu&#233; congratulated President Bush on his victory and stressed the importance of good transatlantic relations. The summit is also expected to agree changes to streamline European asylum and immigration decisions. Mr Blair recently said the UK would only participate in EU-wide measures where it was in UK interests but the Tories say he is surrendering a key veto. The meeting will also assess progress on the economic reform plans agreed in Lisbon in 2000 to make Europe more competitive.\n', 'politics')
(u'Tories urge \'change at the top\'\n\nTory delegates are gathering for what is expected to be their last conference before the general election, declaring Britain needs "a change at the top".\n\nThe party goes into its spring forum trying to highlight what it sees as a clear choice between it and Labour. Tory co-chairman Liam Fox has opened proceedings with a speech criticising Tony Blair\'s record in government. Labour\'s rule has been characterised by "lost trust and failure to deliver", he told the Brighton conference. He also attacked the government\'s "failure" to control immigration and asylum and criticised its record on the NHS, telling delegates Labour cannot be trusted on education or crime. A Tory government would sort out the "shambles" of immigration, put patients before statistics and bring discipline to schools, he said. Dr Fox also underlined Tory promises to cut tax by 4bn.\n\nBBC political correspondent Shaun Ley says opinion polls suggest the Tories still lag some way behind Labour on the issues of health, education and the economy. Conservative leader Michael Howard, who had been due to welcome delegates to the conference on Friday, will address them in a lunchtime speech. His welcome address had to be postponed after he stayed in London to lead the party\'s opposition to the Prevention of Terrorism Bill in its lengthy progress through Parliament. The bill was finally passed on Friday evening, after more than 30 hours of debate. Mr Howard is likely to defend his party\'s handling of the bill, which was only passed after the Conservatives accepted Prime Minister Tony Blair\'s promise that MPs would be able to review it within a year.\n', 'politics')
(u'Hunt ban support is \'in decline\'\n\nSupport for a ban on hunting has fallen in the past six years, a poll suggests.\n\nLess than half the UK wants a ban compared to almost two-thirds in 1999, the Mori survey of 2,000 adults for BBC One\'s Countryfile programme suggests. The number opposed to a ban remains constant, but those "neither supporting nor opposing" has increased by 11%. Most city-dwellers support the ban but rural people were evenly split between supporters, opponents and undecided.\n\nPolling company Mori carried out both surveys. In July 1999 they asked 801 adults if they supported the ban for the Mail on Sunday. For Countryfile they asked 2,234 adults across the country the same question. The Mail on Sunday survey found that 63% supported a hunting ban compared with 24% against. In the Countryfile survey, 47% said they supported the legislation, with 26% against. But the programme makers suggest the British public are becoming "increasingly neutral" to the issue because around one quarter said they "neither support nor oppose" a ban.\n', 'politics')
(u'Research fears over Kelly\'s views\n\nScientists have expressed concerns that new education secretary Ruth Kelly\'s religious views could hamper vital scientific research.\n\nMs Kelly, who is Catholic, is reported to be "pro-life" and has opposed embryo research. Medical Research Council Professor Nancy Rothwell said Ms Kelly\'s views mattered as she was responsible for training future scientists. The Department for Education and Skills would not comment on the concerns.\n\nA spokeswoman said: "It is not news that Ms Kelly is a Catholic but we are not going into any details on this." But she added that claims Ms Kelly was in charge of a 1bn university research budget were not true. It was down to the Higher Education Funding Council and the research councils to decide on universities\' research allocations. British law is open to the cloning of human embryos to create stem cells, master cells that can develop into all the body\'s tissue types. This cloning activity is not permitted for reproductive purposes - only for research into new disease treatments. However, it is controversial because it involves the destruction of embryos.\n\nProfessor Rothwell, who is also vice-president of research at Manchester University, told the Times Higher Education Supplement it would worry her "a great deal" if ministers were anti-stem cell. She said: "The views of ministers in the DfES do matter as they are responsible for training the next generation of scientists. "You can\'t have a higher education policy that is at odds with the government\'s science policy." Head of developmental genetics at the National Institute of Medical Research, Professor Robin Lovell-Badge, said he had witnessed the confused situation in the US where many religious groups opposed the practice. He said: "If someone as senior as Ruth Kelly is not going to favour stem cell research we will end up with a similarly schizophrenic system in this country. It is very worrying." But fertility expert Lord Winston said he thought it was "rather good" ministers held ethical views. Concerns have also been raised by "pro-choice" organisations that Ms Kelly\'s views might affect sex education policy in schools.\n\nFamily Planning Association chief executive, Anne Weyman, said teaching pupils about contraception and abortion were key. "Young people must be informed about all the issues within sexual health, which include contraception and abortion. "I think it is very important that the government maintains its commitment to the teenage pregnancy strategy." Currently, individual schools devise their own sex education policies based on a framework provided by the DfES. Ms Kelly has not set out her detailed views on either issue yet, but has said she intends to put parents first in education policy. This would include the quality of teaching, classroom discipline and academic standards in schools, she said.\n', 'politics')
(u'Tory leader quits legal position\n\nDavid McLetchie has resigned from his post as a partner in a legal firm following criticism over his dual role.\n\nThe Scottish Conservative leader had insisted that his legal work with Tods Murray did not influence the causes he supports. But on Friday he said: "I have tendered my resignation as a partner with immediate effect." Mr McLetchie had received advice from Holyrood officials about what details he needed to declare. Labour said he had "cleverly" not asked about paid advocacy. A Tory spokesman "totally refuted" any wrongdoing.\n\nMr McLetchie received advice from the clerk to the standards committee after concern over him signing a parliamentary motion questioning expansion plans for Edinburgh Airport. The MSP had been a partner for Tods Murray which has a client opposing the development. Mr McLetchie did not have a complaint made against him, but when concerns were raised he sought guidance from the standards committee to clarify his position. He was advised to exercise judgement to avoid the perception of a conflict and said he had done nothing wrong.\n\nExplaining his reason for quitting the post, Mr McLetchie said: "I have been greatly concerned by the recent publicity surrounding my association with Tods Murray. "However, I have no wish to see a similar situation arise again. "To avoid any misconceptions in the future and be mindful of the good name of Tods Murray and the confidentiality to which its clients are entitled, I have brought forward the date of my retirement from the firm which would otherwise have happened later this year. "I am proud to have been a part of Tods Murray for the last 29 years and wish it well in the future."\n\nLabour MSP Christine May had said Mr McLetchie was "very clever" to ask the clerk to consider his conduct in respect of section 5 of the code. "He was almost bound to get the answer he wanted from this enquiry since he stands accused of breaching section 6, the section on paid advocacy," she said. Section 5 of the members interest order legally obliges MSPs to declare registrable interests before taking part in related parliamentary proceedings "where the interest would prejudice or give the appearance of prejudicing their ability to participate in a disinterested manner". However, MSPs\' Code of Conduct "recognises a wider definition" of parliamentary proceedings, including a non-statutory requirement to make a declaration in relation to written notices, such as motions.\n\nBut a letter from Holyrood\'s Chamber Office chief Ken Hughes also made clear that Mr McLetchie did not need to list any of the clients for whom he worked as a solicitor. Commenting on Mr McLetchie\'s decision to stand down, a Scottish Labour Party spokesman said: "This should mean Mr McLetchie doesn\'t breach the paid advocacy rules in future. "However it doesn\'t change the fact that there should be a full investigation into whether he has done this in the past."\n\nScottish National Party Holyrood leader Nicola Sturgeon accused Mr McLetchie of failing to properly serve his constituents. Ms Sturgeon said: "I think this whole episode has been very damaging for Mr McLetchie and I\'m sure he will be reflecting on it." She added that she thought that the Tories were an irrelevant party so she would not "lose any sleep over it". Peter Misselbrook, executive partner of Tods Murray said Mr McLetchie had been considering retirement later in the year. He added: "David has decided that this announcement should be made now and we fully understand and appreciate his reasons for doing so."\n', 'politics')
(u'Kennedy predicts bigger turnout\n\nVoters\' "pent up passion" could confound predictions of a low turnout in the coming general election, Charles Kennedy has said.\n\nThe Liberal Democrat leader predicted concerns over Iraq and other international and domestic issue would express themselves during the campaign. His comments come as an inquiry looks at how best to boost voter turnouts. Ex-foreign secretary Robin Cook said people were not apathetic but fed up of "pager politics" and not being heard. He, like Mr Kennedy, pointed to the hundreds of thousands of people who demonstrated against plans for the Iraq war.\n\nMr Cook, who is giving evidence to the Power inquiry into voter turnout rates, told BBC Radio 4\'s Today Programme it was not fair to blame the public who were "more interested in politics than ever before". "They are turned off by the way we do politics in Britain. There\'s a message there for politicians." He urged politicians to avoid negative campaigning and to "speak more from the heart". "We should be not so afraid to say what we stand for." He also criticised the cult of personality politics: "There\'s far too much interest in celebrities. "Politics are in danger of becoming another branch of the celebrity industry." The government has tried a number of things in an attempt to boost voter turnout, which fell to 59% in the last general election in 2001. This has included bringing in directly elected mayors to head local authorities and trialling postal voting.\n', 'politics')
(u'\'More to do\' on adult literacy\n\nThe government will only hit its target for improving adult maths and literacy skills if courses are made more attractive, a report says.\n\nThe National Audit Office praised ministers for reaching the benchmark of 750,000 adults in England gaining basic qualifications by this year. But a target of 1.5 million more by 2010 needed "creative" ideas. Some 26 million adults lack maths or English skill levels expected of school-leavers.\n\nAccording to the report, "more than half" the qualifications achieved were by learners aged 16 to 18. These are defined as "adults" by the government for the purpose of compiling these figures. Normally adults are defined as being aged over 19. The number of these people gaining qualifications was "rising slowly". Auditor General Sir John Bourn said: "Higher levels of literacy and numeracy will benefit England both socially and economically. "More people will have the opportunity to live richer lives." In 2001, the government launched the Get On scheme - aimed at reducing illiteracy and innumeracy. Sir John said "substantial progress" had been made since, adding that this was "only the beginning". The government and its partners would "need to be creative and responsive". Some 3.7bn will be spent on implementing the programme by 2006. The report recommends gathering more details on the educational needs of areas, so courses can be set to meet local demand. Existing adult learners could use their "enthusiasm, commitment and local knowledge" to attract other people. The Department for Education and Skills could also use more "personalised learning" and work with voluntary groups, councils and employers.\n\nIt should also assess adult learners\' progress "at frequent intervals", the report adds. When the government announced it had reached its 2004 target earlier this month, Prime Minister Tony Blair said it was "only the start of the journey". An estimated 5.2 million adults have worse literacy than that expected of 11 year olds, while 14.9 million have numeracy skills below this level. This is thought to cost the UK economy hundreds of millions of pounds each year. The qualifications achieved by those taking part in the government\'s scheme range up to GCSE equivalents. Get On\'s participation target has been set at 2.25 million by 2010, with an interim figure of 1.5 million by 2007. Education minister Ivan Lewis said: "We will continue to use creative ways of involving people with the lowest skill levels and the report shows that our efforts are gathering pace." Shadow Education Secretary Tim Collins said: "This is the third report in two days to highlight Labour\'s failure to ensure young people acquire the necessary levels of literacy and numeracy for their working life. "Employers and business leaders have repeatedly voiced concern over the number of school-leavers without these basic skills, but all the government have offered is more talk." Liberal Democrat education spokesman Phil Willis added: "Far too little has been done to enable adult learners to fit learning into their busy lives."\n', 'politics')
